How are we going to compute
Minimum Edit Distance?
The standard algorithm is
with dynamic programming.
Dynamic programming is a tabular
method of computation.
And what we're going to do
is we're going to compute D,
the distance between two strings x and y.
x of length n, y of length m,
by combining solutions to subproblems and
combining solutions to subproblems.
And is the intuition of all
dynamic programming algorithms.
The intuition is very simple, for
small prefixes of length of i of
string x and j of string y, we'll compute
the distance between those strings.
And we'll compute our larger distances for
larger strings based on those
previously computed smaller values.
In other words, we're going to compute
the distance IJ between prefixes of
string x of length i and
prefixes of string y of length j and
for all i and j and
we'll end up In the end with the distance.
So let's look at the actual equation.
Here's the equation for
defining minimum at a distance.
And I've given you Levenshtein distance,
which is the distance when there is a cost
of one for insertions, and one for
deletions, and two for substitutions.
So let's look
a the initialization condition.
So we first say that
any characters in x, so
this is the x string.
For the i characters in x string
the distance between those and
the nul string in y is the cost of
deleting each of those characters.
So the cost of those is
the length of the string.
We're deleting each character.
And similarly for inserting all the
characters into y, to create the string y,
the distance between the null string of x,
and the string of y is just the length
of y, the insertion cost of y.
And then we'll do the recurrence relation.
So walking through string x,
and working to string y,
will have that the distance in
any particular cell of our matrix
is going to be the minimum way of getting
to that cell from three previous cells.
If we go from string i that is one shorter
so we deleting one more thing in i.
To make it j, or we're inserting
one thing into j to make it longer.
Or we're substituting
between the previous string,
X of length, i- 1, and Y of length, j- 1.
We're adding in a new character
if it's the same in both strings,
we have a cost of zero.
If it's different,
we have a substitution cost of two.
And then at the end, the distance between
the two strings is simply the D of N,M.
The upper right corner of the matrix,
ao here's our table.
And we can fill in each element of
the table from using this equation.
That tells us the deletion cost, the
insertion cost, and the substitution cost.
So let's do that,
I put the equation up here in the corner.
So we want to know what's
the distance between
the null string of Intention in
the execution obviously zero.
The null string,
the string i to the string nothing
is the cost of deleting an i.
That's one.
So now let's try to compute what's
the cost of converting I-N to E?
Well intuitively we expect it's going to
be a deletion and a substitution.
So let's see if that works out.
All right, so the, element in this
cell is the minimum of three values.
It's this distance plus one,
this distance plus one, or
this distance plus either two if I and
zero are different.
Or 0 if they're the same.
Well they're different.
So it's the minimum of I+1 which is 2,
1+1 which is 2 or 0+2 which is 2.
So we have 2.
So we're going to write 2 in this cell.
Similarly if we want to know
the difference between I, N and
E it's the minimum distance Of I into
nothing plus 1, so 2 plus 1 or 3.
Or the different distance between I and
E plus the cost of adding in that N or 3.
Or the cost of having just an I And
adding in that N to T substitution,
which is 2 or 3.
So again, we have three here.
So we have a 2 and we have a 3.
And if we continue along this manner,
again, in each case,
looking at the three previous cells and
using this equation over here,
we'll slowly end up with and so on.
And if we continue along in this manner,
we're going to end up with
the following complete table.
So, every cell in this table.
Let's take this cell,
tells you the cost of the edit distance of
editing the string I-N-T-E and
turning it into this string, E-X-E.
And that means that this value here,
in the upper-right corner,
is the cost, the edit distance
between intention and execution.
The cost of turning
intention into execution.
And we see the value 8, which we earlier
said was the Levenshtein distance.
So we have Levenshtein distance equals 8.
That's our algorithm for
computing Minimum Edit Distance.